# Plasma Emissions
In the past decades, a paradigm shift has occurred in the context of the exploration of space. In the new paradigm − often referred to as “New Space” −, electric propulsion will certainly play an important role in the future of space exploration. One of the interests of electric propulsion lies in its particularly interesting performances for small spacecrafts such as cubesat or nanosat, the number of which increases since the beginning of “New Space”. In this context, a lot of scientific and technical challenges must be met in order to improve existing technologies or to develop new ones. These challenges are “associated with the difficulty in assessing space performance on the ground” . One of these challenges lies in evaluating the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) between the thruster devices and in particular between the thruster plume and the other devices. This evaluation is important for the safety of the satellite flight. Two sources of perturbations can be identified. the plume self-emission that acts as a source of noise for the thruster components and the modification of the communication channel by the presence of the thruster plume. The evaluation of these perturbations becomes critical as the spacecraft dimensions decrease, as the thruster plume and the communication devices will be even closer to each other. The difficulty of evaluating these effects comes from the necessity of using a vacuum chamber for operating the thruster on the ground. Indeed, the presence of this vacuum chamber (often metallic for mechanical reasons) severely impacts the electromagnetic behavior of the waves inside. Its presence thus prevents to obtain measurements that would be directly representative of the behavior of the thruster plume in space. To resolve this issue, a few test facilities have been proposed these past decades. They are based on the coupling of an anechoic chamber and a metallic vacuum chamber, with the aim of avoiding any interaction of the waves with metallic walls during electromagnetic measurements. However, these test facilities, in addition to being scarce, are bulky and expensive. Hence, there is a growing need to develop cheaper and more easily implementable methods for evaluating the electromagnetic behavior of thrusters. In addition to be essential for the electromagnetic compatibility issue, a precise characterization of the plume self emission may lead to the development of more efficient and reliable thrusters (miniature or not). Indeed, in the sparse literature on self-emission measurements of electrical thrusters in the dedicated bulky and expensive test facilities, GHz self-emission have been observed, whereas none of the commonly used diagnostics are able − for now − to characterize these effects. Furthermore, numerical simulations, which are often of great help for describing the physics of electrical thrusters, are not able yet to predict the high frequency phenomena at the origin of this radiation. Thus, characterization of this GHz self-emission will really be useful in the grasping of the physical mechanisms at play in electrical thrusters.
